# Mobile-app-Developement
Android application using Java

#The requirements for this inventory app consisted of having a login screen, a create user screen, a SMS dialog window, some form of grid view to display inventory items, a way to add items to inventory, and add/subtract/delete items from the inventory. To accomplish this in a user-centered UI my design incorporated a recycler view I felt this gave the user a better way to work with the items on a mobile devices opposed to a simple table. Having the ability to click an item and then go to a details page helped keep the screens clear of excessive information something I was concerned may not have been the case if using other types of grid views. My approach to coding the app focused primarily on research I have never built a recycler view so I spent a lot of time researching to understand how all the compoents come together. I broke my project up into smaller pieces and worked my way through piece by piece, I think this is a good strategy that I will continue to use however this project showed me that I still need to work on refining my process considerably. In order to test my application I used arrays to store items and username/passwords and used the simulated devices in Android Studio to ensure my application was behaving properly prior to incorporating the database. Once the database was added into my app I continued to use the simulated device to test my application. During the development process the biggest challenge I ran into was the recycler view this took a lot of work to get a properly functioning view within my application, Specifically when removing the testing array and connecting to the database. No errors were popping up but I wasn't getting the proper output. I went through my code numerous times and then double checked all my research resources to see what I was missing, ultimately I ended up running the database information into a different array than what I originally had it in and that seemed to fix to the problem. While I'm sure there may be a better solution I am happy with the fact that I was able to identify where the issue was coming from and while I couldn't actually figure out the problem I was able to find a different solution that solved the issue.  

